---
title: Random Question
url: /oranim/conversationclub/randomq
---

<center>
  <button style="display: inline-block; border-radius: 10px; background-color: var(--nav-clr); border: none; color: #FFFFFF; text-align: center; font-size: 16px; padding: 10px; width: 200px; transition: all 0.5s; cursor: pointer; margin: 5px;" id="generate" onclick="genQ()">GENERATE QUESTION</button>

  <p style="color: #666666; font-size: 18px; line-height: 28px;" id="question"></p>
</center>


<script>

qArray = ["What runs in your family? Explain.", "When was the last time you felt you were working against the clock?", "What do you do when you want to keep it low-key?", "At what joints do you like to chow down most?", "Is it hard for you to save up for big purchases? Are you saving up for anything right now?", "Can you think of a time when you threw caution to the wind? Explain.", "How do you think we can cure the world from male chauvinism and misogyny?", "Who wears the pants in your family?", "Are you more often on the same page with your friends, or do you tend to disagree on things?", "What is something you have learned from the school of hard knocks?", "Do you normally shop around before making purchases? For what things do you normally shop around?", "What are some good ways to get your foot in the door when entering a new industry?", "Do you feel like you have a full plate right now? Why?", "What expenses are you trying to cut back on right now?", "Do you know someone who is always the life and soul of the party? What makes them so fun?", "What are some things you don't enjoy but that you know will pay off in the long run?", "Can you think of any times in your own life when you've had to throw in the towel?", "Do you currently have any goals or projects on the back burner? What are they?", "What type of things do you stock up on? Why?", "Is there a black sheep in your family. Who is it? What makes this person the black sheep? Are any of your friends the black sheep of the family? Explain.", "When is it important to cut to the chase in a conversation?", "What school subject do you find to be a breeze?", "What loans have you taken out in your life? How long did it take (or is it going to take) to pay back these loans?", "When bad things happen to you, do you more often feel like 'when it rains, it pours,'' or do you look for the silver lining?", "What are some common scenarios in your life in which you need to put on your thinking cap?", "Are politicians in your country often crooked? What are some ways to fight against this?", "What kinds of activities burn you out quickly?", "Do you tend to procrastinate until it's crunch time, or do you plan ahead?", "What can you do when you want to try to think outside the box?", "Do you use credit cards? Do you always try to pay off your balance at the end of the month?", "Do you think life is easier if you’re born with a silver spoon in your mouth?", "What issues normally cause people to have a falling out?", "Do you think politicians tend to live in an ivory tower? How can this be prevented?", "Do you consider yourself a bookworm? Do you have any good friends who are bookworms?", "If you miss a class, what can you do to get up to speed?", "Which politicians are always spouting hot air? Can you trust anything a politician says? Are there any politicians in your country that you believe in?", "What type of companies are going under right now?", "Are you much of a window shopper?", "When was the last time you pulled an all-nighter? What were you doing?", "Do you / did you often play hooky in school? When might playing hooky be a good idea?", "Do you think you have prejudices against people who are different from you? How can you get rid of stereotypes you may have of others?", "What is something that always makes you feel like you're on cloud nine?", "Do you prefer being swamped with work or having nothing to do?", "What do you get on your soap box about?", "Do you anyone who often bites off more than they can chew?", "When was the last time that you felt like an eager beaver about something?", "Do you live it up often or do you prefer to sit and watch the world go by?", "Do you believe that you really can't teach an old dog new tricks? Why or why not?", "Have you ever needed to learn something by heart? How did you do it? Was it effective?", "Do you often find yourself burning the midnight oil? Why?", "If you were going to paint the town red tonight, what would you do?", "Have you ever had to go back to the drawing board on a project at school/work?", "Should all politicians have to toe the party line? When should they be allowed to speak out against their leader/policy in their party?", "When was the last time you felt under the weather? Why?", "Have you had to fork over money for something recently? Why weren’t you happy about paying?", "Do you get along with your brothers and sisters? What about your parents? Have you always gotten along, or did you used to fight when you were younger?", "In your country, is the man usually the breadwinner? Is this changing?", "Which politicians in your country have the common touch? And which don’t?", "Have you tried to accomplish the same things as your parents? Are you following in their footsteps? Why or why not?", "Have you ever been ripped off? What happened?", "What do you do when you want to kill some time?", "Is there someone in your life who always seems to rain on your parade?", "How do you decide when it's time to call it a day?", "Would you rather shoot some hoops or catch a flick?", "Do you know someone who very often draws a blank when trying to remember something? Do they just have a bad memory or do you think it's caused by something else?", "When can cutting corners get you in trouble? When can it be a good thing?", "Are you similar to your mother or father? Do people think you’re the spitting image of him/her?", "Do you feel like time has been flying for you lately?", "Do you know someone who always has their head in the clouds?", "Are elections in your country normally a two-horse race?", "Do you think it’s common for there to be bad blood between different family members? Why do you think this is?"];

oldQ = 0;
newQ = 0;

function genQ() {
  while (oldQ == newQ) {
    newQ = Math.floor(Math.random() * qArray.length);
  }
  oldQ = newQ;
  document.getElementById("question").innerHTML = qArray[newQ];
}

</script>
