---
title: ''
date: 2019-05-14T18:24:44+0300
draft: true
---

Best books I've read recently:

- *Educated* by Tara Westover
    - The personal story of a woman who grew up in an extremist Mormon home where she was kept from obtaining an education. Her journey to break out of
- *I Am Malala* by Malala Yousafzai
    - Malala, the youngest person to ever be awarded a Nobel Peace Prize, recounts her upbringing and the terrible oppression that the Taliban imposed on her homeland. It was fascinating to learn of all the influences and events that led her to fight for girls' rights to education, despite the risk to her own life. Like *Educated*, this book made me appreciate the many opportunities I've had that I take for granted. Many people—especially women—have been systematically kept from these opportunities through the ages. And the fight for this basic human right is not yet fully won.
- *Enlightenment Now* by Steven Pinker
    - In some ways, this book is the antithesis to the two above. Whereas Westover and Yousafzai use personal stories to shed light on the horrors and oppression that still exist today, Pinker tries his best to convince his readers (mainly through statistics) that the world has been progressively getting better over the last few hundred years. In my estimation, he succeeds with flying colors. Pinker emphasizes time and again two important caveats: (1) we still have much to improve, and (2) a bright future is not guaranteed—it will continue to take tremendous efforts on many fronts. Still this is the perfect read to counter the pessimistic outlook that our sensationalist news providers promote.
- *The One World Schoolhouse* by Salman Khan
- *Man's Search for Meaning* by Viktor Frankl
- *Warbreaker* by Brandon Sanderson
